feat: support openssl fips (#8298)
apache/apisix: docs/en/latest/support-fips-in-apisix.md

---
title: Support FIPS in APISIX
---

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

> OpenSSL 3.0 [supports](https://www.openssl.org/blog/blog/2022/08/24/FIPS-validation-certificate-issued/)
> [FIPS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIPS_140-2) mode. So to support
> FIPS in APISIX, we just need to compile apisix-base with OpenSSL 3.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenSSL 3.0 [supports](https://www.openssl.org/blog/blog/2022/08/24/FIPS-validation-certificate-issued/) [FIPS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FIPS_140-2) mode. To support FIPS in APISIX, you can compile apisix-base with OpenSSL 3.0.
```

> ## Compilation

Reviewer 2: This doc is named "Support FIPS in APISIX", but most of its content is only about compiling APISIX-Base.

@juzhiyuan @navendu-pottekkat 
Could you help to review this doc as the role of APISIX user? Thanks!

Reviewer: The title is correct. Even if we are compiling APISIX, the end goal is to support FIPS. So it is correct. Please also add YAML front matter after the title. Refer to other documentation pages.

Author: > The title is correct. Even if we are compiling APISIX, the end goal is to support FIPS. So it is correct. Please also add YAML front matter after the title. Refer to other documentation pages.

Most docs only contains title. So what extra fields I need to add? Could you give a doc for reference?

Reviewer: See https://github.com/apache/apisix/blob/ae400b95b91240fb867c3cedc9fa65a6b5593f36/docs/en/latest/building-apisix.md?plain=1#L4

I'm trying to add these to all pages. So if we do it from the start, it would be easier.

```bash
# should be as root user

> 

Reviewer: This comment could be replaced by text before the code block:

"To compile apisix-base with OpenSSL 3.0, run the commands below as root user:"

cd $(mktemp -d)
OPENSSL3_PREFIX=${OPENSSL3_PREFIX-/usr/local}
apt install -y build-essential
git clone https://github.com/openssl/openssl
cd openssl
./Configure --prefix=$OPENSSL3_PREFIX/openssl-3.0 enable-fips
make install
echo $OPENSSL3_PREFIX/openssl-3.0/lib64 > /etc/ld.so.conf.d/openssl3.conf
ldconfig
$OPENSSL3_PREFIX/openssl-3.0/bin/openssl fipsinstall -out $OPENSSL3_PREFIX/openssl-3.0/ssl/fipsmodule.cnf -module $OPENSSL3_PREFIX/openssl-3.0/lib64/ossl-modules/fips.so
sed -i 's@# .include fipsmodule.cnf@.include '"$OPENSSL3_PREFIX"'/openssl-3.0/ssl/fipsmodule.cnf@g; s/# \(fips = fips_sect\)/\1\nbase = base_sect\n\n[base_sect]\nactivate=1\n/g' $OPENSSL3_PREFIX/openssl-3.0/ssl/openssl.cnf
cd ..

export cc_opt="-I$OPENSSL3_PREFIX/openssl-3.0/include"
export ld_opt="-L$OPENSSL3_PREFIX/openssl-3.0/lib64 -Wl,-rpath,$OPENSSL3_PREFIX/openssl-3.0/lib64"

wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/api7/apisix-build-tools/master/build-apisix-base.sh
chmod +x build-apisix-base.sh
./build-apisix-base.sh latest
```

> The apisix-base would be installed into `/usr/local/openresty-debug`.

Reviewer 3: Are these operation commands included in the `install-linux-openresty.sh` script? I think this needs to be more concise, a lot of command line looks unfriendly

Author: Currently, in my opinion, because we don't plan to touch build-tool,  it's the only way to reuse the install script. If you need more clean way, please give solution directly.
If in later future, we could apply it into build-tool, then no need to do tricy and temporary stuff here.

> The apisix-base would be installed into `/usr/local/openresty-debug`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will install apisix-base to `/usr/local/openresty-debug`.
```
